All Purpose MD5 READ ME
Author: Nick Powers
Contact: powers.nick@gmail.com

Contents
1.) Introduction
2.) How To Use This Software
a. Calculate A MD5
		i. A File
	ii. A Directory
	b. Test A MD5
		i. 2 Files
		ii. A File and a String
	c. Statistics
	d. Options
3.) Troubleshooting
4.) FAQ
5.) Acknowledgements

1.) Introduction
	Welcome to the All Purpose MD5 software.  
	This software is designed to easily, quickly and effortlessly calculate and test md5s.  
	This simple program also calculates and keeps statistics to see just how fast it is.  
	If you are interested in contributing to this Open Source project, please email me at powers.nick@gmail.com.

2.)	How To Use This Software
 	Using this software is easy.  Just follow these simple instructions.

	a.	Calculate A MD5
		Click the Calculate tab.

		i. 	A File
			Start by clicking the Choose a File radio button. 
			Click Browse. 
			Choose a file.  
			Click Calculate.  
			Your result should display in the Calculate Result text box.  
			If you would like to save the md5, click Save MD5 AS... under File, in the menu.
	
		ii. A Directory
			Start by clicking the Choose a Directory radio button. 
			Click Browse. 
			Choose a directory. 
			Click Calculate.  
			Your result should display in the Calculate Result text box and be saved 
			in your default directory as the name of the directory folder plus a md5 extension (i.e. myfolder.md5).

	b.	Test A MD5
		Click the Test tab.

		i.	2 Files
			Choose the file you want to ensure the consistency by choosing Browse by File to be Tested.  
			Choose your file.  Then choose the md5 file by clicking Browse by MD5 File. Click Test.

		ii.	A File and a String
			Choose the file you want to ensure the consistency by choosing Browse by File to be Tested.  
			Choose your file.  
			Paste or type your MD5 string in the box labeled Paste or Type the MD5. 
			Click Test.

	c.	Statistics
		Click the Statistics tab.
		The statistics tab is used to view that statistics of all the md5 calculations.  
		This tabs purpose is to show you how fast this program is, compared to others. 
		If you’d prefer not to use these statistics, simple turn it off in the options.

	d.	Options
		File-->Options

		All Purpose MD5 has some options that can be altered.  They are listed below, with explanations.
	
		-	Stats Enabled – Choose to disable stats calculations
		-	Number of Stats Kept – Choose the number of stats listed in the Statistics tab table
		-	Recurse Directories – Choose not to recurse directories when calculating all md5s in a directory.
		-	Default Directory – You may change the default directory where the md5s are stored.
		-	Reset Options – Resets the options to the defaults.

3.)	Troubleshooting
	If you are unable to launch the program, ensure you have Java 1.5 runtime installed.  You may download it from http://java.sun.com.

4.) FAQ
	Q. The program complains about a property every time it starts up.
	A. Reset the options by choosing File-->Options-->Reset Options.  If you are unable to do that then unzip apmd5_properties.jar to the directory you installed the application.
	
	Q. The program seems to lock up if I calculate a big file.  What’s going on?
	A. Big files take some time to calculate. On my machine a 800 mb file takes about 20 seconds.
	
	Q. The program keeps giving weird errors.
	A. This is alpha software, it is prone to bugs.  Please email the contents of your log to powers.nick@gmail.com, subject being “All Purpose MD5 Error”.  You can get to the log by Help-->View Log. You can copy and paste it or email the actual log, located in the install directory and called APMD5.log.
	
	Q. The program won’t start up.  What’s wrong?
	A. Ensure you have the latest JRE(Java Runtime Environment 1.5 or greater) installed. If you are still having problems and you are running Windows, please contact me.
	
	Q. I can’t run this program on Linux/Mac?
	A. I am yet to test this on multiple platforms.  So far, I know it works on Windows 2000/XP.

5.)	Acknowledgements
	As of today, I am the only contributor/developer.  
	I took code from 
	http://www.twmacinta.com/myjava/fast_md5.php 
	for the fast md5 code.

